kuzumoto 2007 model
===================

Simulation analysis of intracellular Na+ and Cl- homeostasis during beta 1-adrenergic stimulation of cardiac myocyte.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Kuzumoto M, Takeuchi A, Nakai H, Oka C, Noma A, Matsuoka S.
Prog Biophys Mol Biol. 2008 Jan-Apr;96(1-3):171-86. Epub 2007 Aug 1.

Cell/Biodynamics Simulation Project Kyoto University, Graduate School of
Medicine, Kyoto University, Japan.

To quantitatively understand intracellular Na+ and Cl- homeostasis as well as
roles of Na+/K+ pump and cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator Cl- 
channel (ICFTR) during the beta1-adrenergic stimulation in cardiac myocyte, we
constructed a computer model of beta1-adrenergic signaling and implemented it
into an excitation-contraction coupling model of the guinea-pig ventricular cell,
which can reproduce membrane excitation, intracellular ion changes (Na+, K+, Ca2+
and Cl-), contraction, cell volume, and oxidative phosphorylation. An application
of isoproterenol to the model cell resulted in the shortening of action potential
duration (APD) after a transient prolongation, the increases in both Ca2+
transient and cell shortening, and the decreases in both Cl- concentration and
cell volume. These results are consistent with experimental data. Increasing the 
density of ICFTR shortened APD and augmented the peak amplitudes of the L-type
Ca2+ current (ICaL) and the Ca2+ transient during the beta1-adrenergic
stimulation. This indirect inotropic effect was elucidated by the increase in the
driving force of ICaL via a decrease in plateau potential. Our model reproduced
the experimental data demonstrating the decrease in intracellular Na+ during the 
beta-adrenergic stimulation at 0 or 0.5 Hz electrical stimulation. The decrease
is attributable to the increase in Na+ affinity of Na+/K+ pump by protein kinase 
A. However it was predicted that Na+increases at higher beating rate because of
larger Na+ influx through forward Na+/Ca2+ exchange. It was demonstrated that
dynamic changes in Na+ and Cl- fluxes remarkably affect the inotropic action of
isoproterenol in the ventricular myocytes.

PMID: [17826821]

[17826821]: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17826821
